Frank McKinney Jr., swimming champion

By JUDY BATTISTA
AND MARILYN GARATEIX
Herald Staff Writers

Frank E. McKinney Jr., a champion
Olympic swimmer who helped found and
oversee the International Swimming Hall of
Fame in Fort Lauderdale, died Friday in a
plane crash in Indiana.

McKinney, 53, was one of six people killed
when two small planes collided near India-
napolis. The National Transportation Safety
Board is investigating.

“He was a dynamic guy,” said Bill Kent, a
pool equipment supplier and fellow member
of the Hall of Fame’s executive committee.
“He was a very bright, driven type of a guy.
He had a hands-on approach to everything,
not a laid-back guy at all. I thought he was
great.”

McKinney helped found the Hall of Fame

in the mid-1960s and chaired its board of
directors in 1990 and 1991. He ran executive
board meetings by phone from his office in
Indiana when he couldn't be in South Flor-

ida.

McKinney began his swimming career at
age 7. In 1955, at 16, he won the 100-meter
backstroke in the Pan American Games in
Mexico City. A year later, as a high school
junior in Indianapolis, he won a bronze
medal in the 100-meter backstroke in the
1956 Olympics in Melbourne, Australia.

At the 1960 Olympics in Rome, McKin-
ney won a silver medal in the same event and
a gold medal in the 400-meter medley relay.
He was a former world record holder in the
200-meter backstroke and 400-meter medley
relay.

McKinney led Indiana University, where
he was a student, to its first Big Ten champi-

onship in swimming and helped make the
university a dominant power in collegiate
swimming competition.

He graduated from Indiana in 1961 witha
bachelor of science in economics and finance.
A year later, he earned his master’s degree in
business administration from Indiana Uni-
versity.

McKinney spent two years stationed at the
Pentagon in Washington, D.C., as a first lieu-
tenant with U.S. Army intelligence.

After his military stint was done, he
worked for the First National Bank of Chi-
cago for several years. Later he joined Ameri-
can Fletcher National Bank, where he even-
tually succeeded his father as chairman.

McKinney helped make the bank into one
of Indiana’s largest financial institutions. He
retired from banking in 1990. A service was
held in Indianapolis.

