Lloyd Miller, past Reds owner

Cincinnati industrialist also was U.S. ambassador in ’70s

BY JIM CALHOUN

The Cincinnati Enquirer

Lloyd I. Miller, a Cincinnati industrialist who at one
time was known as “the Boy Wonder of Fourth
Street,” died after he suffered a massive heart attack
Sunday at his home in Naples, Fla.

He was 66.

Mr. Miller, who grew up in the Pleasant Ridge
neighborhood of Cincinnati, had been a major investor
in numerous Queen City-based corporations and was
one of the former owners of the Cincinnati Reds
baseball club, associates said.

He also was a former U.S. ambassador to the
Caribbean nation of Trinidad and Tobago from 1973
to 1975, during the Nixon Administration.

He earned the “golden boy” reputation among
Cincinnati's business elite for his acumen and ambition
fresh from college at Miami University in Oxford and
law school at the University of Cincinnati.

By age 25, he had been a World War II combat
veteran in the invasion of the Philippines, an insurance
claims adjuster, lawyer, stockbroker and youngest
director ever of the Cincinnati Street Railway Co.,
forerunner of today’s Metro bus system.

“He was a very warm and loyal friend. He was an
extremely clear thinker. And when it came to secu-
rities, he was a genius,” said Benjamin Gettler, a
friend and former business partner who knew Mr.
Miller since their days at Walnut Hills High School
(Class of 1942),

“He read everything that he could get his hands
on. He followed the stock market religiously,” and
even kept an up-to-the-minute watch on Wall Street
with a machine in his office that showed latest quotes.

“And he watched it all the time. From the begin-

ning, he was always read-
ing everything about the
financial markets,’’ said

can International.

Controlled Industries,
which used to own the for-
mer Cincinnati Transit Co.
He also was former chair-
man of Vulcan Internation-
al, a holding company for
Vulcan Corp., a shoe,

Lloyd |. Miller

cern.

including Central Bancorp (Central Trust Bank), Ea-
gle-Picher Industries Inc., Pittsburgh National Corp.,
Super Foods of Dayton (Ohio) and Comair Inc.

Mr. Miller also was the owner of thoroughbred

Gettler, president of Vul-

Mr. Miller was former |
president of American]

sports and plastics con- |

And he was a director of several corporations, |

horses, His most famous was Dark Mirage, winner of |

the Triple Crown for fillies in 1968 and Daily Racing
Form’s choice as the 3-year-old champion that year.
Dark Mirage is in the Hall of Fame of the National
Museum of Racing.

“He never really retired. He simply decided to
move to Florida in 1984. He said he liked the climate
better,” Gettler said.

Mr. Miller was scheduled to attend Vulcan Interna-
tional’s annual directors meeting in Delaware today,
Gettler said.

Funeral arrangements were incomplete Sunday
night. Catherine Crider Miller, his wife of 38 years,
said a memorial service would be held in Cincinnati.
