Brewer, former Cooper Tire chairman, dies

FINDLAY, Ohio (AP) — Edward
E. Brewer, chairman of the Cooper
Tire and Rubber Co. from 1977 to
1989, died Sunday. He was 67.

Mr. Brewer died of cardiac arrest
at Foote Hospital in Jackson, Mich.,
after being stricken while attending
a family reunion.

He began working part time at
Cooper in 1940 and continued at the
Findlay-based company after grad-
uating from Purdue University. He

was elected a vice president of the
sonny in 1954 and joined the
board of directors in 1963.
In 1970, Mr. Brewer was
romoted to executive vice presi-
dent and in 1977 became president,

chairman of the board chief ex-
ecutive officer. He retired as chair-
man in 1989.

He is survived by his wife, Joyce;
five children; three sisters; and two
brothers.
Tire executive E. Brewer

FINDLAY, Ohio — Edward E. Brewer,
chairman of the Cooper Tire and Rubber
Co. from 1977 to 1989, died Sunday at age
67.
BREWER, EDWARD E., 67, of
Clearwater, died Sunday (Aug. 9, 1992) in
Jackson, Mich. He was born in Findlay,
Ohio, and had been a winter resident here
for many years before making Clearwater
his permanent home last year. He was a
board chairman, a president and a chief
executive officer at Cooper Tire & Rubber
Co,, Findlay. He was an Army veteran of
World War II and received a Purple Heart.
He received degrees from Purdue Universi-
ty, West Lafayette, Ind., and Harvard Uni-
versity, Cambridge, Mass. He was a trom-
bonist with the Purdue University Band and
Findlay Civic Band, He was a deacon, trea-
surer, trustee and an elder at College First
Church of God, His memberships included
Tau Beta Pi and Pi Tau Sigma engineering
societies, American Society of Mechanical
Engineers, Society of Automotive Engi-
neers and President's Association of Ameri-
can Management Association. He was a
trustee of Lawrence Institute of Technolo-
gy, Detroit, a president of the Findlay
Music Association, a director of American
Synthetic Rubber Corp. and a board chair-
man of Findlay College. He was a board
member of Fifth Third Bank of Northwest
Ohio, Findlay Chapter of the American Red
Cross, Findlay YMCA and Lima Symphony
Orchestra. Survivors include his wife of 44
years, Joyce; a son, Stephen E., West Lafay-
ette; four daughters, Rebecca L. Mitchell,
The Woodlands, Texas, Mary K. Ferguson,
Findlay, Sara J. Chenette, Menlo Park,
Calif., and Debra K. Day, Arlington, Ohio;
two brothers, W. Robert, Findlay, and
James W., Long Beach, Calif.; two sisters,
Evelyn Pauly, Wellington, New Zealand,
and Kathy B. Terranova, Old Tappan, NJ.;
and 12 grandchildren. Coldren-Crates Fu-
neral Home, Findlay, Ohio.

*_* *