Ames chemical company
founder Hach dies at 70

By JEFFREY BRUNER
Register Stan writer

Clifford Hach, 70, a noted Iowa inventor and founder of an Ames chemical
company, died Thursday after spending the week tinkering in his laboratory,
trying to come up with a better way to do something.

Mr. Hach was respected worldwide as an authority on water analysis and
soil testing. He was a prolific inventor in analytical chemistry, and his inven-
tions and analytical procedures found wide acceptance among agricultural
chemists and those working in the field of water analysis.

Mr. Hach and his wife, Kathryn, founded the Hach Co, in Ames in 1948. In
1977, they moved the company’s headquarters to Loveland, Colo., where he
died of a heart attack. The company still has a distribution center in Ames.

Robert Hansen, a chemistry professor at lowa State University, said Mr.
Hach was a hard-working man,

“He drove himself very hard, especially when his company was starting,”
Hansen said, “He couldn't imagine anyone who went only 40 hours a week.”

Indeed, Mr. Hach once said, “The most persistent problem of my life has
been chronic impatience.”

He was responsible for many inventions, including the turbidimeter, which
measures the clarity of liquids, and automated analyzers for controlling water
treatment.

Mr. Hach was born in Clutier and was reared on a farm near Green Moun-
tain, He graduated from Iowa State University with a degree in chemistry.

Hansen said Mr. Hach founded the chemical company with Harvey Diehl, a
retired ISU chemistry professor. Dieh! later sold his share of the company
after their friendship soured, Hansen said.

Diehl declined to talk about his relationship with Mr. Hach.

Mr. Hach is survived by his wife; two sons, Bruce Hach and Paul Hach; a
daughter, Mary Gibbs; and eight grandchildren, all of Loveland.

Memoria! contributions may be made to the Hach Scientific Foundation,
which provides college scholarships for chemistry students.
