Like a lightning bolt
Klein stormed racing

Eugene V. Klein, who died yesterday in Califor-
nia at the age of 69, will be remembered as the
dominant thoroughbred owner of the 1980s, even
though he came to the game and left it in a
veritable flash, much like the gold lightning bolt
that slashed across his blue racing silks.

At the time he put his all-star stable up for
auction last Nov, 6 at Keeneland, Klein had only
been in the game for around six years, a pittance
compared with the lifelong devotion of such estab-
lishment owners as Ogden Phipps, Paul Mellon and
the late John Galbreath.

é a ht V
ly brief span, Klein won i i
jritually eeenaniy Klein won virtually
and race worth win.  @Very trophy and
ning, including the 1988 race worth

Kentucky Derby with winning, including
the powerful gray filly

Winning Colors. Anoth- the 1988 Kentucky
er of his fillies, Lady's Derby.

Secret, was the 1986. .

Horse of the Year.

He and his trainer,

D. Wayne Lukas, annually turned the $10 million
Breeders’ Cup programs into their personal show-
cases,

Of the first 42 races, each of which carries a
purse of at least $1 million, Klein's horses won
seven, a record.

So enormous was his success — he won Eclipse
Awards as the nation’s leading owner in 1985, 1986
and 1987 — that everybody in the business was
shocked last June when Klein announced he was
getting out of the business. The reason, he said,
was so he could smell the roses.

Ready to relax

“This was a very personal decision,” Klein said
last fall. “I've worked pretty hard in my life, and
I've never had a sustained period of time off. Now I
want to travel, to enjoy my wife, my children, my
grandchildren, my friends.”

A smile twitching under his walrus-style mus-
tache, Klein insisted that he might someday want
to return to the game, the proof of which was that
he planned to keep Rancho del Rayo, the 250-acre
training center outside San Diego that's surrounded
by a real-estate development.

In retrospect, perhaps Klein knew something
about his health that he didn’t want to disclose
publicly. Last November, as he watched his fine
horses being sold, one after the other, he masked
his emotions better than his wife, Joyce, who sat on
the edge of her chair, snapping photographs that
she framed through teary eyes.

A native New Yorker, Klein was a self-made
man who began his career by selling encyclopedias
to work his way through New York University. He
interrupted his education to enroll in the US. Army
Air Corps.

Moving to California after the war, Klein began
selling used cars. He moved from that to introduc-
ing the Volvo to the United States, after which he
became chief executive officer of a failing theater
and television chain, which he renamed the Nation-
al General Corporation.

By the time he sold his interest in the mid-
1970s, National General had become a conglomer-
ate with assets of more than $1 billion. That
enabled him to turn his full attention to the San
Diego Chargers football team, his toy/business
since the early 1960s.

Under Klein's ownership, the Chargers never
made it to the Super Bowl, but they did become one
of the National Football League's more successful
teams behind Coach Don Coryell. Klein later used
their insignia and colors in his racing silks.

In 1984, Klein sold the Chargers for a reported
$40 million, partly because of a heart attack he
suffered earlier in the year, but mostly because he
was fed up with the players and their problems. In
horse racing, he found a new sporting interest that
was less frustrating and more rewarding.

Once he plunged into racing, the smartest thing
he did — and Klein was always the first to admit it
— was to hook up with Lukas, who was then just
beginning to redefine the training business. Togeth-
er, they became the most formidable team in the
game.

Smooth sailing from the start

Klein never really had to struggle, as even the
wealthiest owners have to do at various points in
their careers, and so he never seemed to fully
appreciate how fortunate he was.

He seemed to think the game was easy, and
that rankled those who felt he hadn't paid his dues.

The low point of Klein's career came after the
1988 Preakness, when he ri veteran trainer
Woody Stephens and jockey Pat Day for the tactics
they used against Winning Colors with Forty
Niner, the fine Claiborne Farm colt.

Determined not to let Winning Colors have the
lead unchallenged, as she had in the Derby, Day
and Forty Niner made her run every step in the
early eee Tee Bets Ole ees
that ii bumping even took place on the back
stretch.

At the end, Winning Colors finished third and
Forty Niner up the track in a race won by Risen
Star, but Klein said his filly’s chances were compro-
mised by Forty Niner. Although Stephens and Day
denied being guilty of anything more than trying to
win the race, Daily Racing Form took Klein's
side in a rare front-page editorial.

As it turned out, that was Klein's last hurrah.
‘The firestorm eventually flickered out, even if the
hard feelings smoldered beneath the surface.

By last November, however, Klein seemed at
peace with himself. Sad as he was to see his
wonderful horses being sold, he also was excited
about the future — a future, as it turned out, that
was all too brief.
